= biOps Installation Guide =
This page describes how to install [http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/biOps/index.html biOps], an image processing package, on R. *Note*: As of 2014, biOps is no longer available from cran. The following instruction was updated to accommodate this change.

= Windows =
 # Download (go to the DLL's page then download the raw file) [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/source/browse/jpeg62.dll jpeg62.dll], [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/source/browse/libtiff3.dll libtiff3.dll], [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/source/browse/libfftw3-3.dll libfftw3-3.dll], [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/source/browse/libfftw3f-3.dll libfftw3f-f.dll], [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/source/browse/libfftw3l-3.dll libfftw3l-3.dll], and [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/source/browse/zlib1.dll zlib1.dll] to C:\Program Files\R\R-3.x.x\bin\i386 (x.x needs to be edited) or somewhere present in the PATH variables.
 # Download [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/source/browse/biOps_0.2.2.zip biOps_0.2.2.zip].
 # Run R.
 # Choose biOps_0.2.2.zip from Packages>Install package(s)...
 # Load the library.
{{{
> library(biOps)
}}}

[RImageBookInstallationEn#Windows Proceed to RImageBook installation].

= Linux =
The following explanation is for Ubuntu Linux. biOps depends on libfftw3,libtiff, and libjpeg.
 # Install there libraries by typing the following command in Terminal.
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install libfftw3-dev libtiff4-dev libjpeg62-dev
}}}
 # Start R and install devtools and biOps.
{{{
$ sudo R
> install.packages("devtools")
> library(devtools)
> install_url("http://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/Archive/biOps/biOps_0.2.2.tar.gz")
> library(biOps)
}}}


[RImageBookInstallationEn#Linux Proceed to RImageBook installation].

= Mac OS =
This is for Leopard, Snow Leopard, and Lion.
biOps depends on libfftw3, libtiff, and libjpeg.
 # Install these libraries by typing the following command in Terminal.
{{{
$ sudo port install fftw-3 tiff jpeg
}}}
 # Create symbolic links to the libraries.
{{{
$ cd /usr/include
$ sudo ln -s /opt/local/include/fftw3.h
$ for x in /opt/local/include/j*.h; do sudo ln -s $x; done
$ for x in /opt/local/include/tiff*.h; do sudo ln -s $x; done
$ cd /usr/lib
$ for x in /opt/local/lib/libfftw3.*; do sudo ln -s $x; done
$ for x in /opt/local/lib/libjpeg.*; do sudo ln -s $x; done
$ for x in /opt/local/lib/libtiff.*; do sudo ln -s $x; done
}}}
 # Start R and install devtools and biOps from the source file.
{{{
$ sudo R
> install.packages("devtools")
> library(devtools)
> install_url("http://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/Archive/biOps/biOps_0.2.2.tar.gz")
> library(biOps)
}}}

[RImageBookInstallationEn#Mac_OS Proceed to RImageBook installation].