= RImageBook Installation Guide =
RImageBook provides utilities for digital image processing in R. It includes the functions described in the [http://www.amazon.co.jp/gp/product/4320019784/ book] as well as the scripts for reproducing the figures in the book．RImageBook depends on two other image processing packages, EBImage and biOps. The following sections describe a step-by-step installation guide for Windows, Linux, and Mac OS. We thank [AcknowledgementEN these people] for contributing to this document．

Here, the codes that start with "$" and ">" are Shell commands and R commands, respectively. You don't need to type $ or > when you run these commands.


= Windows =
Compatible with 32 bit Windows 7, XP, and Vista. Timing: 15 min.
 # [RInstallationEn#Windows Install R].
 # [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/wiki/EBImageInstallationEn#Windows Install EBImage].
 # [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/wiki/biOpsInstallationEn#Windows Install biOps].
 # Launch R, and install RImageBook by running the following two commands:
{{{
> source("http://rimagebook.googlecode.com/svn/installRImageBook.R")
> installRImageBook()
}}}
 # Load the package.
{{{
> library(RImageBook)
}}}
 # Run some of the [DemoListEn demos] to check functionality.
{{{
> demo(WingSegmentationDemo)
}}}

= Linux =
The following example is for Ubuntu Linux 32 bit and 64 bit. Timing: 10 min.

 # [RInstallationEn#Linux Install R].
 # [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/wiki/EBImageInstallationEn#Linux Install EBImage].
 # [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/wiki/biOpsInstallationEn#Linux Install biOps].
 # Start R and install RImageBook with the following commands.
{{{
$ sudo R
> source("http://rimagebook.googlecode.com/svn/installRImageBook.R")
> installRImageBook()
}}}
 # Load RImageBook package.
{{{
> library(RImageBook)
}}}
 # Run a [DemoListEn demo] to test the package.
{{{
> demo(WingSegmentationDemo)
}}}

 * *Note* If the steps above fail to install RImageBook, try checking out the package from our repository and build it yourself following the steps below.
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install subversion
$ sudo svn checkout http://rimagebook.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ rimagebook-read-only
$ cd rimagebook-read-only/RImageBook
$ sudo bash ./build.sh
}}}

 * *Advanced* Installation of additional libraries (openCV and VTK) enables face recognition and volume rendering on R. Follow the instructions [BuildRimagebookOnLinuxEn here].


= Mac OS =
Compatibility tested with Mac OS 10.5 Leopard, 10.6 Snow Leopard, and 10.7 Lion. Expect 2 to 4 hours to complete installation.
 # [RInstallationEn#Mac_OS Install R].
 # [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/wiki/EBImageInstallationEn#Mac_OS Install EBImage].
 # [https://code.google.com/p/rimagebook/wiki/biOpsInstallationEn#Mac_OS Install biOps]．
 # Start R in Terminal and install RImageBook with the commands below.
{{{
$ sudo R
> source("http://rimagebook.googlecode.com/svn/installRImageBook.R")
> installRImageBook()
}}}
 # Load RImageBook.
{{{
> library(RImageBook)
}}}
 # Try some [DemoList demos].
{{{
> demo(WingSegmentationDemo)
}}}

 * *Note* If the steps above fail to install RImageBook, try checking out the package from our repository and build it yourself following the steps below.
{{{
$ sudo svn checkout http://rimagebook.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ rimagebook-read-only
$ cd rimagebook-read-only/RImageBook
$ sudo ./build.sh
}}}
 * *Advanced* Installation of additional libraries (openCV and VTK) enables face recognition and volume rendering on R. Follow the instructions [BuildRimagebookOnMacEn here].